In this video I'll demonstrate how to configure a storage array type plug ins and path selection plug
ins for an ESX host.
So here you can see I am at the storage view of the Vee's for a web client and I've clicked on a particular
data store and under that data store I've clicked on configure and connectivity and multipath.
And here you can see this particular data store is mounted to one specific ESX host.
This is actually a local data store on that particular ESX host.
Down here we can see the different multipath details specific to this particular host.
And this data store.
So I can see here the path selection policy that is currently selected is one called fixed and then
it has a little VM where in parentheses and I can see the preferred path.
Now again this is a local data store.
There's not a whole lot of paths to choose from here.
And that I can see my storage array type policy which is v M.W. SATB local and if I click on edit multipath
thing you can see here I can choose different path selection policies if I want.
So number one I want to break down really quickly what the difference between these three policies are.
Number one fixed basically means you have the ability to select a preferred path.
If there are five different paths that this host can use to get to this storage you choose which one
you want.
You said that preferred path and that path is always used unless it fails at which point one of the
other paths will be utilized.
That's how fixed works.
Most recently used is basically going to take the first path that becomes available and it will continuously
use only that one path to reach this storage device.
Now if that path fails it'll fail to a different path.
And most recently used there is no way to set a preferred path.
So if it fails to a different path it's going to always stay on that path unless that path fails.
There's no fail back.
And then finally we've got round robin.
So if you have multiple paths to your storage device round robin will distribute that storage traffic
across those different paths.
So which one should you use.
Well the real recommendation here is check with your storage vendors documentation use whatever your
storage vendor recommends.
If it's a local storage fixt is perfectly fine but your storage vendor may have a specific preference
as to which of these path selection policies you utilize.
Your storage vendor might even have their own plugins that they want you to implement.
So you can see what we're using here is the NAACP the native multipath plug in this is built into every
ESX I host.
It just comes with ESX I'm the MP so fixed round robin most recently used those are Baig to write into
ESX.
Now those storage paths selection plugins may not really be the exact right ones for your particular
storage vendor.
Maybe they've made their own little load bouncing and failure detection mechanisms that are going to
work much more efficiently with their particular brand of storage.
That's what the pluggable storage architecture is all about.
It gives you the ability to import multipath policies that have been provided by your storage vendor
and the process is going to differ a little bit for each of the different storage vendors out there.
So as far as what you need to know for the exam you need to be able to differentiate fixed in which
case you set a preferred path and that preferred path is always used unless it fails most recently used
in which case one path is used.
If that path fails another path is used.
There is no fail back.
There is no preferred path and then round robin in which the traffic is distributed across multiple
paths.
You need to be able to differentiate between those three and you need to understand the concept that
the native multi-pass thing plug in is built right into ESX high but that you can also implement pluggable
storage architecture storage plug ins from your storage vendor.